Google Season of Docs: Initialize landing and link it from other pages (#3107)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/sigs/docs/gsod/index.adoc

---
layout: project
title: "Google Season of Docs in Jenkins"
section: projects
sig: docs
tags:
- gsod
- docs
- docs-sig
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsod/gsod.png
links:
  meetings: "/projects/gsoc/#office-hours"
---

image:/images/gsod/gsod.png[Google Season of Docs, role=center, float=right]

The https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs/[Google Season of Docs (GSoD)]
program brings together open source and technical writers communities for the benefit of both.
The program raises awareness of open source, of docs, and of technical writing.
GSoD in Jenkins is organized by the link:/sigs/docs[Documentation special interest group].

== GSoD 2020

Jenkins project will be applying to Google Season of Docs 2020.
We invite technical writers to join the community and contribute to the documentation being used by millions of Jenkins users worldwide.

> 

Author: Better to leave that to the GSoD organizers. Their plans may change

> 

Reviewer: Yeah agree

> 

Reviewer: We could just make it limited participants instead of specifying a number, but whatever it does not matter that much.

=== Project ideas

We invite technical writers to contribute to a major documentation update effort being coordinated in the documentation SIG.
It includes a number of link:/sigs/docs/#ongoing-projects[ongoing projects],
and technical writers are welcome to make their proposals in any area of the Jenkins documentation.
We encourage proposals based on a technical writer's expertise and interests.

[frame="topbot",grid="all",options="header",cols="30%,15%,55%"]
|=========================================================
|Project idea | Keywords | Description and links

| Plugin documentation migration and update 
| Markdown, GitHub, Plugins, Rewrite, Copy-editing

> | Currently we are migrating our plugin documentation from link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/[Confluence] to GitHub,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Plugin documentation is probably  first point of contact for users, and being the biggest automation server you have the chance to contribute to the plugin documentation and have an impact . Currently we are migrating our plugin documentation from link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/[Confluence] to GitHub,
```

  see link:/blog/2019/10/21/plugin-docs-on-github/[this blog post] for announcement.
  We have already moved hundreds of pages, but there are more than 1000 pages remaining.
  Migration itself can be done with automated tools we provide, but the documentation usually needs a significant update due to new features.

>   We invite technical writers to select an area (e.g. "plugins for Docker"), and to migrate and update documentation for a number of plugins in such an area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We invite technical writers to select an area (e.g. "plugins for Docker"), and work closely with the core developers to migrate and update documentation for a number of plugins in such an area.
```

Author: Not core, plugin developers

  link:/sigs/docs/#plugin-documentation-on-github[More Info]

| Jenkins on Kubernetes
| AsciiDoc, Guide, Compilation

> | Jenkins on Kubernetes is a popular theme for Jenkins users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Currently Kubernetes is the hottest infrastructure technology on the planet. Jenkins on Kubernetes is a very popular theme for Jenkins users.
```

Reviewer: The main aim of this would be to make it more appealing to writers.

Author: Fine with me. WDYT @markyjackson-taulia ?

Reviewer 2: I like the change except for the use of `hottest` 😆  and 'on the planet"

Reviewer: 😆

Reviewer 3: I'd rather not have the change proposed from @sladyn98 .  It feels like stronger marketing language than the Jenkins project generally uses.  I agree that Kubernetes is very interesting to Jenkins users.  I think we should keep the focus on Jenkins and how it can be used on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Yeah no worries sure I was thinking from a different perspective. Apologies if it was not in line with the Jenkins views.

>   There were a lot of presentations and articles about running Jenkins on Kubernetes, but we .

Reviewer 3: Incomplete sentence?

```suggestion
  There were a lot of presentations and articles about running Jenkins on Kubernetes, but we need a central location for documentation describing Jenkins on Kubernetes.
```

  We would like to create new documentation which would describe the concepts, techniques, and choices for Kubernetes users running Jenkins.

>   link:/sigs/docs/#jenkins-on-kubernetes[More Info]

Author: on this page or in the upstream?

>   link:/sigs/docs/#jenkins-on-kubernetes[More Info]

Reviewer: For now we could just add it on this page

| Jenkins user documentation reorganization and update
| AsciiDoc, Guide, Rewrite
| Jenkins user topics are included in the current link:/doc/book[Jenkins Handbook], and are frequently received to improve the user documentation.
Common improvement themes include adding pipeline examples with each of the pipeline steps and additional tutorials for new users.

> We would also like to restructure content to make it more discoverable and easy to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main aim of this project would be to  restructure content to make it more discoverable and easy to read.
```

link:/sigs/docs/#user-guide[More info]

|=========================================================

=== Getting started

If you are interested to participate in Google Season of Docs as a technical writer, please do the following:

> . Join our link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jenkinsci-docs[Mailing list] and link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/docs[Gitter Channel].

Author: None of these resources is designed for meeting and real-time help per se

> . Join our link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jenkinsci-docs[Mailing list] and link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/docs[Gitter Channel].

Reviewer: Doesn't hurt to get some conversations going on the gitter channel though.

> . Join our link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/jenkinsci-docs[Mailing list] and link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/docs[Gitter Channel].

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, maybe it would help get some contributors on the gitter chat
